Track 6. The Oak gave you a warning.
I'm often down in Machynlleth, you know. There's the cinema, of course, and the stables at the Red Lion.
One of my favourite jobs was toothing the timber.
I used to collect one of the horses from there, big old mare she was,
and we'd spend the day pulling all the fallen timber out of the woods.
Not long after, they started using a tractor.
Betty was the one for that. She'd change the oil, clean the cabaretta,
and even fix it when it broke down, quite often, as I recall.
She's married now, left the land army, of course.
Nowadays, I'm responsible for dispatch.
Most of the timber goes off on lorries from the woods to Machynlleth.
It's either taken to the railway station where I then go down to dispatch 12, 14,
sometimes 16 trucks from the station, or to the two sawmills.
We all fought to work in there, of course.
You were allowed to cut up the wastebark using a small electric saw,
bag it up and sell it as firewood.
There isn't much wood wasted.
The birch goes for brush backs, you know, scrubbing brushes,
ash for axe handles, poplar for matches,
alder for clog backs and the oak.
Well, that goes mainly to the mines in South Wales.
The South Wales miners won't have softwood pit props
because the oak gives you a warning, a creak before it gives.
Wasn't as cheap, mind.
Perhaps that's why the Midland miners had the softwood.
Either way, I'm glad us girls don't have to go down the pits.
We developed quite a technique for stacking the pit props in sleepers.
With a girl on each end, we'd swing them back and forth
and release them on top of each other.
We coped quite well with the softwoods, the oak ones on the other hand.
Come on, let's head down to the river now.